# MicroVBA-PowerPoint
MicroVBA is a VBA interpreter written in VBA to be used in **PowerPoint** in order to be able to import large vector graphics files. The advantages are: **vectorization of PowerPoint presentations** (no fonts needed), **fonts embedded in presentations**, can be used as a **Vector Graphics File Format** storage, simplification of complex objects construction, **no limitations in the size of the files** and **more pertinent and helpful error messages**. It can be extended to handle full VBA conpatibility. 

## Overview
MicroVBA programs can theoretically run as macros in PowerPoint. However, due to limitations in the size of VBA procedures, 
VBA macros cannot be used as a general multi-purpose **Vector Graphics File Format**, since complex vector graphics files almost always have much more than 64kB. **MicroVBA solves this problem** and can definitely be used as a programming language that can also function as a vector graphics format with no limitations in size. Thus, **MicroVBA is a language that is between PostScript and PDF**, because it has limited programming features, even though it is more programmable than PDF and it could be extended to a full-fledged VBA syntax. It has all characteristics of PostScript with advantages, since Powerpoint is able to handle transparency (as well as PDF). In this sense, MicroVBA uses PowerPoint as its rendering engine, in the same way PostScript files need an interpreter to display their content and PDF files also need a program (like Acrobat) to be rendered.

MicroVBA has three huge advantages over PostScript and PDF:
- It is VBA Basic, which is far much simpler than PostScript and PDF.
- It is a text file that can be part of a larger real program in VBA inside a PowerPoint file. That is, its excellent connectivity surpasses PostScript that can hardly be used in conjunction with something else except itself. It also largely surpasses PDF too, since PDF is a closed, mostly binary format, that also cannot be used outside of itself. In addition, the lightweight MicroVBA interpreter footprint does not overshadow simple VBA programs. PostScript interpreters and PDF renderers are just gigantic software.
- It can generate a very high end presentation using a tool that everybody knows how to use.

In addition to that, the choice of using real VBA commands makes MicroVBA code snippets easily debugged directly as PowerPoint macros, a  particularity that can only be compared with PostScript language. However, once an object is created in PowerPoint using a code snippet, it can then be copied, pasted, translated and scaled in a presentation. This principle is used below to explain how to construct PowerPoint paths. This is far superior and powerful than PostScript programming language because its code can only produce a rendering on the screen, except when it is explicitly converted to another format.

As one can easily see, MicroVBA opens the door to very powerful uses that were difficult to imagine without it.

What completes the use of MicroVBA are convertions from other vector formats. This has already been accoplished by a modification of FreeHEP project that generates a MicroVBA file from whatever a Java program shows. Even though this looks more like a programmer's solution, that's not really the case because the contents of Java vector information can be stored in file using an intermediate file format. This file can be read and the program can than convert the information into MicroVBA.
